You have spent a very long time on our ticket service and we are almost done with it.
Just one last thing here.
I think maybe one more last thing after this.
We'll see.
Anyways, right now in my tickets service, I'm going to find CRC and then inside their indexes.
So inside of indexes, before we start up our express application, you'll recall that we connect through
the net client and we provide a hardcoded cluster ID right there, a hardcoded client ID and a hardcoded
URL for our net server as well.
We went through a decent amount of effort to extract some hardcoded connection variables and whatnot
into environment variables for our JWT key and the Mongo URI as well.
So I think we should do something very similar for the cluster ID, client ID and the URL for nets.
This is just going to make sure that if we ever want to change those settings, it's going to be a lot
easier to modify an environment variable inside of a config file, then updating our actual source code.
So let's try to define a couple more environment variables inside of our ticketing deployment file.
I'm going to find my infra directory and then inside there I'll find my tickets.
Deployment file.
Here it is right here.
So this is where we had previously specified the Mongo URI and JSON web token key environment variables.
So we're going to add on three more environment variables right here.
One for our cluster ID, one for the client ID and one for the URL.
We're going to focus first on the cluster ID and the URL and then we'll take care of the client ID third,
because that's going to be kind of a special little case.
So inside the deployment file, I'm going to add in a name.
Of Nets, Earl.
And a value of http nets.
CRV port or two, two, two.
Next up, I'll put in a name.
Of Nats.
Luster.
ID.
And the value for this is ticketing.
We don't actually need quotes on that one.
All right, so that looks good.
Now, what about the client ID?
The client ID is kind of a special case.
The client ID, remember, needs to be unique for every client that we have connecting to nets.
So we cannot really have a hardcoded value right here if we expect to be running multiple copies of
our tickets service.
The same is true of our deployment file as well.
We cannot put a hardcoded value inside of here because if we want to run multiple copies of the ticket
service, they will all try to use that same hardcoded client ID value.
What we had done previously back on our little test project was to just randomly generate a string and
throw it inside there.
That is definitely an option, but I think there might be a better solution here.
Let me tell you why a random string is not the best thing for a client ID.
At some point in time, the future, we might want to take a look at the logs on our NAT server to take
a look at the Nats deployment, take a look at the logs and take a look at the different clients that
have connected to it over time.
When we look at all those client IDs, according to Nats, it would be really nice if we could somehow
match up the ID of each client to an actual run copy of our ticket services.
So in other words, I kind of want to know where each copy of my ticket service that is connected to
Nats, what each of those is doing and that's easiest to do if we have some meaningful value inside
of here for the client ID as opposed to a just completely randomly generated value.
So how can we get a unique value inside of here that we can use to somehow tie back to each copy of
the ticket service we are running?
Well, let's go over to our terminal run command and I'll show you something that would be very effective
for this purpose.
So at my terminal, I'm going to do a queue.
It'll get pods, and I'll see that I've got my running tickets service right there.
So the name of this pod is unique, and I would never expect to have two pods that are running the ticket
service with identical names.
And what's more, if this name right here shows up as an ID inside of my net's logs, I can very easily
take a look at that ID and say, Oh, well, the client that is connecting with this ID must be this
pod right here.
So I think it'd be really nice if we could figure out some way to use the name of a pod as our client
ID.
How do we do that?
Well, back inside of our deployment file, of course.
Inside of my ticket's deployment file, inside of our end section.
Once again, I'm going to put in another entry here.
I'm going to provide a Nats client ID.
And then for the value right here, we need to somehow tell Kubernetes that we want to take the pods,
like the pods name, which is randomly generated and use it as the value right here.
To do so rather than writing out a value we're going to put in value from.
Then the field ref and then field eth metadata name.
So now whenever we create a pod to run the ticket service, Kubernetes is going to take a look at the
Pods name and provide it as an environment variable inside of our container called Nat's client ID.
And so we could use that it is going to be randomly generated.
It will be unique, but it also identifies this client inside of some Nats logs or what have you back
to the actual pod that is running our ticket service.
But I think that this is a pretty good solution.
All right.
So now that we've got all these environment variables, I'm going to save this config file.
Well, then go back over to indexes and we're going to make sure that we pass into those environment
variables for the connect statement right here.
Now once again, remember, TypeScript wants us to make sure that these environment variables actually
exist.
So we do have to do some additional checks very similar to these.
I'm going to copy the Mongo Uri one and paste it down three times.
And then I'll write out inside of these three copy pasted statements, a check for it, and that's client
ID, Nats URL, and that's cluster ID.
So for the first one, here's the first copy of Mongo Uri.
I'm going to change EMV to Nets client ID.
I'll change the error right there as well to nets client ID.
Then I'll go manually to Nat's underscore URL.
And then the last one was cluster ID.
So mango your eye on the left or right here to cluster ID make sure that you still have MongoDB three
and that's client ID, that's URL and that's cluster ID.
So we can take those different environment variables and throw them into this connect statement.
I'm going to delete the hardcoded values and replace them with process E and V net's cluster ID.
Do some more copy pasting just to save myself some time.
The next one is going to be our next client ID.
And then finally, that's Earl.
Like so.
As usual, we should probably make sure this stuff is all working.
So I'm going to save this file.
I'll then go back over to my terminal.
And I should see my ticket service still successfully connecting to Nats.
Yep.
Looks good to me.
Cool.
All right.
So that is pretty much it for our ticket service.
We have spent a very long time on this.
There is still one or two things.
We have to come back to this thing and take care of.
You might recall that many years ago we had a discussion on concurrency and tracking the version of
say like this ticket thing to make sure that we don't have concurrent updates.
So we still have to come back and handle some stuff like that on our ticket model.
We also are going to eventually come back and add in some listeners to this service as well once we
have another service publishing events.
But for right now that is pretty much it for our tickets service.
Now I know we spent a crazy amount of time on this thing many, many hours, but this is a pretty rock
solid service right now.
So we're going to end up using this ticket service as kind of a base.
We're going to more or less copy paste it, to be totally honest with you, over to our next service
and use that as a base.
And now that we understand how all this different stuff works, trust me, the next service we put together
is going to be a lot faster.
So pause right here and I'll see you in just a minute.